# GUI for image generator
## Overview

This MATLAB script will generate a GUI for generating synthetic fluorescent image and a corresponding labeled imstance segmentation image.

This GUI is made through MATLAB APP Designer. The script pack the functions in the matlab_batch folder and revise them into a class. The final image_generateor_app.m file is generated by MATLAB APP Designer.

All assumptions are the same as the assumptions in matlab_batch.

## Requirements

**MATLAB**: This script requires MATLAB with the Image Processing Toolbox.

## Usage and Examplar:

1.	Clone or download this repo.
2.	Open MATLAB, make sure all files are in the same folder
3.	Run the image_generator_app.m file. It will produce a GUI. You can change teh size of the image (Length and width), cell NO. distance between center of each cell (Distance, should be > 3*cell size),  the size of the cells, and the fluorescent intensity range. Then please push the 'Preview' button, it should show the generated images on the right side. Once you are happy with the parameter, you can change the 'Repeat' to the batch no (like 3), and put the path and filename to the Save as... then press Batch. The generated fluorescent image (name is what you put + _1, _2 ...)and corresponding labeled images (file name is label_+what you put + _1,_2...)are generated and saved.
NOTE: I am using MATLAB online for coding and testing. Without identify the path, i.e. only put filename in the save as.., it will save images in the same folder as where the matlab file in the MATLAB drive. If you want to change to another folder, make sure the folder exists before putting the path. I don't think MATLAB will create the folder for you. Otherwise it will not run and save correctly. 
